docs(weekly): add this week in databend 110 (#12822)
datafuselabs/databend: website/blog/2023-09-10-databend-weekly-110.md

date: 2023-09-10
slug: 2023-09-10-databend-weekly
cover_url: 'weekly/weekly-110.jpg'
image: 'weekly/weekly-110.jpg'
tags: [weekly]
description: "Stay up to date with the latest weekly developments on Databend!"
contributors:
  - name: akoshchiy
  - name: andylokandy
  - name: ariesdevil
  - name: b41sh
  - name: BohuTANG
  - name: Chasen-Zhang
  - name: dantengsky
  - name: Dousir9
  - name: drmingdrmer
  - name: everpcpc
  - name: flaneur2020
  - name: JackTan25
  - name: lichuang
  - name: nange
  - name: PsiACE
  - name: RinChanNOWWW
  - name: soyeric128
  - name: sundy-li
  - name: TCeason
  - name: Xuanwo
  - name: xudong963
  - name: youngsofun
  - name: zhang2014
  - name: ZhiHanZ
authors:
  - name: PsiACE
    url: https://github.com/psiace
    image_url: https://github.com/psiace.png
---

[Databend](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend) is a modern cloud data warehouse, serving your massive-scale analytics needs at low cost and complexity. Open source alternative to Snowflake. Also available in the cloud: <https://app.databend.com> .

## What's On In Databend

Stay connected with the latest news about Databend.

### Using BendSQL to Manage Files in Stage

> Databend recommends two file upload methods for stages: `PRESIGN` and `PUT/GET` commands. These methods enable direct data transfer between the client and your storage, eliminating intermediaries and resulting in cost savings by reducing traffic between Databend and your storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Databend recommends uploading files to a stage with`PRESIGN` or `PUT / GET` command. These methods enable direct file transfer between the client and your storage, eliminating intermediaries and resulting in cost savings by reducing traffic between Databend and your storage.
```

```SQL
root@localhost:8000/default> PUT fs:///books.parquet @~

PUT fs:///books.parquet @~

┌───────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                 file                │  status │
│                String               │  String │
├─────────────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ /books.parquet                       │ SUCCESS │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────┘

GET @~/ fs:///fromStage/

┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                      file                     │  status │
│                     String                    │  String │
├───────────────────────────────────────────────┼─────────┤
│ /fromStage/books.parquet                      │ SUCCESS │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

If you are interested in learning more, please check out the resources listed below.

- [Docs | Staging Files](https://databend.rs/doc/load-data/stage/stage-files)

## Code Corner

Discover some fascinating code snippets or projects that showcase our work or learning journey.

### Using Databend Python Binding in Jupyter Notebook

> Databend provides Python Binding, allowing you to access Databend without deploying a instance. Its DataFrames can also be easily converted to Polars and Pandas formats, making it convenient for integration with data science tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Databend provides Python Binding, allowing you to access Databend's features without deploying a Databend instance. Its DataFrames can also be easily converted to the Polars and Pandas formats, facilitating integrations with common data science tools.
```

> Just execute the following command to install:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Databend Python Binding, simply run the following command to install the library:
```

```bash
pip install databend
```

The code below demonstrates how to use Databend Python Binding in Jupyter Notebook and plot a bar chart using `matplotlib`.

```python

> # Create a table in DataBend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create a table in Databend
```

ctx.sql("CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS user (created_at Date, count Int32)")

> # Create a table in DataBend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create a table in Databend
```

ctx.sql("CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS user (created_at Date, count Int32)")

> # Insert multiple rows of data into the table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Insert multiple rows into the table
```

result = ctx.sql("SELECT created_at as date, count(*) as count FROM user GROUP BY created_at")

# Display the query result
result.show()

# Import libraries for data visualization
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

# Convert the query result to a Pandas DataFrame
df = result.to_pandas()

# Create a bar chart to visualize the data
df.plot.bar(x='date', y='count')
plt.show()
```

![](https://databend.rs/assets/images/localhost_8888_notebooks_Untitled.ipynb-3992998c3577fa62ff83a36bcee494f8.png)

If you are interested in learning more, please check out the resources listed below:

- [Docs | Tutorial-3: Integrate with Jupyter Notebook with Python Binding Library](https://databend.rs/doc/visualize/jupyter#tutorial-3-integrate-with-jupyter-notebook-with-python-binding-library)

## Highlights

We have also made these improvements to Databend that we hope you will find helpful:

- Added initial support for ownership model.
- Added support for Hash Join spill.
- Columns in Databend are now nullable by default. Please refer to the documentation [Docs | NULL Values and NOT NULL Constraint](https://databend.rs/doc/sql-reference/data-types/#null-values-and-not-null-constraint) for more details.

> - Read the document [Docs | databend-local](https://databend.rs/doc/sql-clients/databend-local) to master Databend Local mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read the document [Docs | databend-local](https://databend.rs/doc/sql-clients/databend-local) to learn the Databend Local mode.
```

## What's Up Next

We're always open to cutting-edge technologies and innovative ideas. You're more than welcome to join the community and bring them to Databend.

### Creating UDFs with JavaScript

> [PR #12729 | feat: implement udf server in databend](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend/pull/12729) is expected to be merged this week. This means that Databend will soon support creating user-defined functions with Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PR #12729 | feat: implement udf server in databend](https://github.com/datafuselabs/databend/pull/12729) is expected to be merged this week. This means that Databend will soon support creating user-defined functions in Python.
```

```SQL
CREATE FUNCTION [IF NOT EXISTS] <udf_name> (<arg_type>, ...) RETURNS <return_type> LANGUAGE <language> HANDLER=<handler> ADDRESS=<udf_server_address>
```

> We expect to provide support for various language UDFs based on this PR, and JavaScript may be one of the options worth trying.

Reviewer: We will provide support for UDFs created in various languages, with JavaScript being the next one in line.
